COGNIZANT INTERVIEW QUESTIONS:

1.What are your day-today activities?
Checking emails,responding back to them,reviewing deployment documents,checking the new realease,new features which are goinf to add to applciation,
and attending meetings,updating my task in scrum call,resolving my tickets within the given sprint.
deploying to cloud when ever developers write new code and ask us to deploy.
2.What do u work on?
i will be deploying new realease for clients for three environments,dev,test and production.
we have deployment document and if any changes or bugs found at the time of deploymen twill be escalated to build team.

i work on git,jenkins ,aws cloud(include services which you know) jira,apache tomcat.

3.What is the build tool u use?
our code is written in java and we use maven as build tool
4.What are third party dependencies u define in build tool?
we integrate many plugins like git,maven,java,deployer to tomcat,nexus artifactory and many more.
5.Which type of pipeline u use in jenkins?
parametirized jobs pipeline

6.How do u automate multi pipeline?
if the first pipeline will gets executed then the second will start building.
if first one is failed then whole pipeline will get failed.
7.What are the testings u do?
i will just deploy the applicaitonf and check if its running or not and then testing team will run the necessary test cases.

8.Will u create barnches in git or developers do them?
developers will be creating the branches in it and my scrum master will verify the code and merge it to developed branch.
i will pull the code from develop branch to jenkins.

9.How to merge branches in git?
to merge branches developers will send pull request as they dont have acccess to merge branches,scrum master will verify and then 
merge the code to develop branch.
we can do that from command like git merge <branch_name>

10.What will u do if the code to deployed has an error in it?
if the code has error then it will found at dev environment itself then it will be escalated to the respected team to debug and solve the issue.
if in worst case it was found after deploying to prodcution then we can redeploy the older version,we store all the artifacts of older verion in nexus.

we will redeploy the older version and once the bug is resolved we again eploy it to dev,test and production again.
